[Music]
now there's no denying your vehicle
needs special love and attention in
wintertime but hey summer is no season
to just relax and take it easy
when it comes to keeping your car in the
best shape either for instance number
one drivers rarely care too much about
moisture getting inside the car but
that'd be a big mistake if say the
floors are damp under the mats mole can
quickly start to form in the warm summer
months
[Music]
be sure to dry all the damp areas to
prevent fungus growth from ruining the
inside of your car do the same before
winter hits
so that ice doesn't form in wet spots
number two I'm sure you know that
feeling when you park your car in the
Sun for a while and once you come back
this steering wheel is as hot as a
frying pan
so they keep it from frying your fingers
turn the wheel 180 degrees before you
leave the car this way the side you'll
touch will stay down in the shade number
three okay but what about the scorching
gearlever
easy just put an insulated drink sleeve
over it and you're good if you don't
have one of those you can just spray it
with some water to cool it down the same
trick works for burning hot seat belt
buckles number four now it only does the
summer Sun make your car hot inside it
can also cause a funky smell to appear
to solve this stinky problem tape a
dryer sheet on to the air conditioning
vents just keep a handful of those in
the car to use whenever you need them
number five as weird and illogical as it
sounds the engine just doesn't need to
warm up in the winter it also needs to
in the summer when you just start the
engine it's still not hot enough for
normal operation if you start it and
immediately drive off the oil won't have
had time to warm up and reach all parts
of the engine let the engine warm up for
about thirty seconds before you take off
number six if you're driving slowly it's
better to open the windows instead of
turning on the AC it burns a lot of gas
at low speeds because it runs at full
capacity while the engine is going at
low revs when you're driving fast like
highway speeds it's better to keep your
windows up and the a/c on if the wind
gets in your car and you're driving fast
it'll slow the car down and make it
harder to run your pooch will have to
wait until you're going a little slower
if he wants to stick his head out the
window
number seven if you hear air hiss
through the gas cap when you open it
don't panic it happens for two reasons
first as you're driving fuel gets pumped
out of the tank but no air enters the
vacant space this produces a pressure
difference that you sort of balance out
once you open the lid the second reason
is the opposite when your car has been
sitting for a while gas papers
accumulate inside the tank however if
you see fuel leaking out of the tank
when you open it that's a good reason to
see a mechanic number eight back in the
50s before a/c was an everyday reality
some drivers put blocks of ice in their
vehicles now you can still use this
trick if your a/c isn't blowing out cold
enough air for your liking just put a
block of ice on the floorboards under
the vent but use a pan to keep the
runoff under control
number nine all you want when you're
driving on a hot summer day is something
cool to drink instead of packing a
cooler with you simply use your glovebox
colder air blows in there from the AC
there's a little lid inside and when you
turn it around it opens a cool air
outlet it's not the most powerful fridge
in the world so it won't make your
drinks ice cold or anything but it can
help them stay cooler or stay cool for
longer
[Music]
number 10 if your visors have those
protective panels that slide or close
over the mirror remember to shut them
whenever you're driving sure the mirrors
come in handy if you want to pick at
your teeth or check your makeup at a
stoplight of course but don't forget
they're made of glass and can easily
break if you get in an accident
that wouldn't be a pretty picture play
it safe and just close them before you
take off number 11 don't leave anything
on the dashboard if you park in the side
it's not just about coming back to a car
covered in melted gummy bears the real
danger is that the intense heat from the
Sun can melt just about anything the
battery can catch on fire and the entire
car can go up in flames if you live
somewhere with a hot climate get one of
those metallic sun shades and put it in
the windshield if you don't have one on
hand use a towel to cover the dash
[Music]
12 now to keep your car from getting
overheated under the Sun it's always
best to park in the shade if you can
never park your vehicle under trees in
bloom in fact it's best to avoid any
trees and that's because in the summer
many of them produce juice resin and
sticky fruit and berry grains that can
land directly on your car they can
gradually damage the paint and varnish
if you don't have a chance to wash the
car for a while
this stain will remain if this happens
you can use a soap solution or special
liquids to wash it off the easiest thing
you can do is mix soap and water in a
spray bottle and give it a good cleaning
this will also work just fine if there's
bug residue on your car you know bug
guts clean it with a microfiber cloth or
sponge just don't press too hard or
you'll damage the overcoat number 13 if
you wash your car in the summer it's a
good idea to give it some extra
protection from insects those tree juice
stains and asphalt stains there are also
sand grains and pebbles that get kicked
up from under the wheels of passing cars
they leave marks on the cars body that
dull the paint over time so to prevent
all that cover the vehicle with a few
coats of Polish at the beginning of
summer here's how you can make your own
at home great a bar of soap to get a
half a cup of plates mix them with a
half a cup of water and leave it in a
bowl overnight for the soap to dissolve
melt a tablespoon of beeswax and a half
a cup of jojoba oil in a pot combine the
dissolve soap flakes and beeswax jojoba
mix and blend it into an even paste
polish your car with a creamy mixture
using a soft cloth and buff it with
another dry cloth to make it shiny once
you apply the mix it interacts with the
paint on a molecular level creating a
thin shell to protect the car some
people also add a little petroleum jelly
or baby oil on top for
extra protection against bugs number
fourteen flush your engine cooling
system regularly to keep the engine cool
check the overflow reservoir between
flushes to make sure there's enough
liquid in the coolant and never take off
the radiator cap while the engine is
still high boiling coolant can give you
a nasty burn make sure rubber hoses and
drive belts in the cooling system are in
good condition and there are no cracks
or soft spots
number 15 be ready for summer breakdowns
in case your engine is boiling because
of high temperatures or some breakage
turn the heat on at full blast and let
the hot air from the engine blow inside
the car this is a temporary solution but
if you're on the highway and can't stop
and wait for help it'll cool the engine
down a bit and if the problem is more
serious and you just must stop in the
middle of nowhere
be prepared keep an emergency kit inside
your vehicle it should have water some
non-perishable foods a first-aid kit
basic tools road flares jumper cables
and a flashlight and bring some M&Ms and
here's a bonus tip for you if you're
stuck in a traffic jam and it's getting
too hot inside your car use a mini
battery-powered fan it probably won't do
you much good but it'll at least keep
you entertained and help save gas that
would otherwise be wasted on running the
AC
so can you think of any other summer car
care tips that everyone should know
please share your own ideas down in the
comments if you learned something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend but hey don't
speed off just yet we have over two
thousand cool videos for you to check
out all you need to do is pick the left
or right video click on it and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life
[Music]